---
layout: post
title: 5.0
---

I started working for <a href="http://www.intalio.com">Intalio</a> more than a year ago.

At the time I was a young software engineer with some skills regarding the Eclipse platform. 
I grabbed a seat, and stayed there learning how to code with a team, parsing XML, understanding BPEL, hacking WSDL and groking Ruby.

Working for Intalio is fun. I personally feel like I am constantly rewarding myself. Every feature we bring in is a new skill, a new technology we master.
There is no forbidden path to achievement, we always take the shortest one, and that means slashing into code, rewriting, beautifying, migrating fearlessly.

In a small structure like this one, one thing continues to astonish me: we don't discuss objectives. We all know where we fit and bend together to make it work.

For the last year we have been running a marathon, rewriting most of the Designer. I am proud of announcing to you that it is available for everyone and for free <a href="http://bpms.intalio.com/index.php">out there</a>.

<a href="http://itredux.com/blog/2007/09/24/from-vision-to-execution/">Ismael</a> thanks all the persons that made it possible, and I'd like to thank them too, not only the team today, but the team I did not have the chance to know two or three years ago.

After this release, nothing has changed. We are still focused on the product and delivering the best experience to our customers.
We already started digging and have some finds for 5.1.

More on all this very soon.