---
layout: post
title: "The Union of The CheckBoxTreeViewer TreeItems : We shall be disabled together, or die in single combat!"
---

Dear committer, prepare your jFace-foo !

We have a case where we have a CheckBoxTreeViewer that represents a list of elements.

The list in itself is informative. The user is going to be very interested into what is selected, and what isn't.

It's certain that at some point he will expand the tree to look at some nodes, come back, etc.

Right now, you cannot disable the checkboxes of a CheckBoxTreeViewer without disabling the whole tree.
So that means that your users cannot check checkboxes (that was the intent), but they also cannot expand the tree.

What if you'd like to disable some checkboxes only ? That's unsupported too.

Unfortunately, there is no solution for  this problem so far. I filed <a href="https://bugs.eclipse.org/bugs/show_bug.cgi?id=259092">259092</a> earlier today to investigate the issue, and it seems you can <a href="http://tom-eclipse-dev.blogspot.com/2008/10/disable-parts-swt-tabletree-with.html">try to add a listener</a> to revert the check event when the user clicks on checkboxes. Users would still see the items as enabled though, and given the complexity of the interface, adding a tooltip, a new decoration is just going to be confusing.

If you have a spare vote to cast for this bug, a comment, and idea, and ideally a patch, let's talk about it on the <a href="https://bugs.eclipse.org/bugs/show_bug.cgi?id=259092">bug</a>!
